Project Vision Document Template

The project vision document is the initial (and often foundational) statement about your project.  It provides a platform to communicate (and collaborator on) the shape and scope of your project with other core project partners and potential external collaborators.  A project vision document should never exceed 2 pages.

Title:

What is your project's name?  You should not only think about the name itself, but how that translates into a domain/URL

Welsh Mining and Labor Map

Project Description:
This project highlights significant sites in Wales, UK. These sites are important labor/quarry/mining sites which are important to the history of the region.

Describe the project.  What are its motivations and intellectual significance.  Why is it important?  Why is it meaningful?  Why is it significant? What sort of need does it address?

Deliverables/Outcomes:

What will be the end result, what will the project produce. If it will result in a website, discuss that website. Based on your project name, what is its domain/URL (remember, a domain name is an important part of a project’s visibility/promotion/recognition.

Functionality & Technology

Describe the functionality of the project (what will it do, how will users interact with it, how will will it present content)). What sorts of technology will be used to build all aspects of the project. Where will it live (where will users interact with it).

Audience:

Who is the audience (and why)? Think about how will you build community among your audience?

Data, Information, Content 

What is the core content/data of the site?  Is data being drawn from somewhere else (a museum or archive).  If so, what is that data/content and where is it coming from? Remember, if you are drawing data/content from another institution (museum, digital library, archive, etc), you should consider including them as partners.

Partners

Does your project have (institutional) partners?  If so briefly discuss who they are and what their role in the project is.  
